SIDE A
TITLE PAGE:
OPEN TRAINING GUIDE



#ASKnet 
Empowering South Sudanese Youth in Leadership & Training



#ASKnet - Sharing Skills and Knowledge
#ASKnet is a peer to peer community network that aims to raise media literacy and increase access to information for young innovators in and from South Sudan, Uganda and Kenya. Creating a network of trainers, the #ASKnet community hubs are working together to share their skills and experience. In 2018 #ASKnet workshop participants included local Rhino Camp community members, joined by prospective trainers from Bidibidi refugee settlement (Yumbe district), Adjumani district, the Kiryandongo refugee settlement (Bweyale) as well as South Sudan and Kenya. 
Open Training Guide
This Open Training Guide (#OTG) is a learning resource that can be used by anyone to facilitate easier Access to Skills and Knowledge. It offers tools and methodologies to help design and run your own training, wherever you may be, with whatever resources you have at hand.
The #OTG was developed in conjunction with the #ASKnet ToT training programme 2018, hosted by CTEN, the Community Technology Empowerment Network, at their Refugee Information Center (RIC) in Rhino Camp refugee settlement (Arua District, Uganda), in collaboration with Hive Colab (Kampala, Uganda) and funded by the ‘Access to Information and Supporting Freedom of Expression’ programme of the German Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ).


CTEN Uganda aims to strengthen media literacy, basic IT, access to open information as well as community training methods and workshop development skills in Rhino Camp and beyond.

[LOGOS] r0g_agency / CTEN / HIVE COLAB / BMZ (Funding) 
*Logo guidelines - size & placement BMZ logo (alternate formats?)

#OTG #OpenTech #ASKotec #P2P #DIY #DIWO #OpenLearning #ASKnet 

https://openculture.agency




What is Open Training?
How do I give training if I don’t have those skills and I want to share information? 

Equipping people with tools and methodologies to be able to transfer knowledge effectively. The open training philosophy enables participants to become trainers themselves.

FREE as in Freedom -  Open knowledge and Open Source 
Content is developed by users themselves (user centred)
Content is developed as the learning goes on - something new is discovered.
Content built on available content - REMIX / RENEW knowledge and information
Varies from place to place - changes depending on where you are. 
OPEN TRAINING GUIDE
The Open Training Guide offers an introduction on how to create and deliver your own training. Everyone is encouraged to create content based on your own skills and knowledge!
The Open Training Guide offers participants knowledge on who a trainer is, what is expected of a trainer, how to create a training, selecting a target group, how to search for content on open source repositories online and everything about online media. Open training includes logistics & technical skills, various training formats & documentation, communications channel teamwork and output to create a Team of skilled #OpenTrainers.

“I learnt a lot from the ToT training and have started using the knowledge I gained to facilitate community dialogue in my community in Adjumani. I gained skills, vital for some of us who do not have a good education, and got small employment with NGOs to do trainings like hygiene promotion; and learned to search for open source information online.” James Asaliza 
METHODOLOGIES
Presented in a P2P (Peer to Peer) learning format to support the development of open training & research skills through an INTERACTIVE and constantly adapting  process.  

Participants are introduced to skills on how to create their own content. Trainers do not provide notes to the participants during training, but rather encourage them to create their own content of the training based on how they understand the topics and interpret them. 
This results in the creation of an open document where the participants and trainers enter ideas, notes and information related to the training on a daily basis. Participants become comfortable creating content for their own trainings.

“The training was very insightful. I will be conducting future training on how to make water filters for my community … Having a platform to pitch diverse ideas was totally amazing … the organisations I interacted with have proven to take an interest in what we are doing.” Participant Hellen Kimaru
FORMATS
Research various formats, try them out to decide what works best for your training!

Training formats include: lectures and presentations, role play, brainstorming, group discussion, unconference, interviews, fireside chat, storytelling and P2P improvisation.
EXAMPLES
World Café
Discussion questions using hate speech example:
What are the cases of hate speech you’ve heard?
Why do you think the people use this speech?
How can this speech be reduced?
Fake News Discussion
Hate Speech mitigation: #defyhatenow
Kudos Jar
Feedback sessions can be conducted as part of each training day or week with a “Kudos Jar.” Trainers and participants have an informal get-together, sitting around a campfire maybe, where notes with positive comments to trainers or participants are read and passed around. During the training period anyone can write anonymous notes and drop them in the “Kudos Jar.” This process gives confidence and encouragement to the participants and trainers to work even harder or improve on what they did during trainings.

#ASKotec 
Access to Skills and Knowledge open tech emergency kit
The #ASKotec is a kit designed to work as a mobile trainer‘s set to tackle basic field
challenges when it comes to community access to skills development, open and collaborative learning, upcycling and open hardware innovation, as well as repairing all kinds of everyday things. The kit is used to help deliver basic understanding of mechanical and electrical tools, ICT and electronics, and other forms of hands-on experience with technology. Building a LED light or a solar charger for mobile, fixing broken radios or accessing valuable online resources when you are offline … all are inside #ASKotec, as are an Open Learning Guide (#OLG), and Open Hardware Guide (#OHG) and this Open Training Guide (#OTG)! 

“I am using the #ASKotec to help repair simple electronics of the local refugee community and also giving trainings on how to build more solar chargers.” Richard Maliamungu

SCENARIOS
Social Media Literacy
HOW TO INTRODUCE CONCEPTS OF SOCIAL MEDIA LITERACY
‘Media’ is simply a way to carry a message from one person to another, using technology.
Media literacy is the ability to access, understand, analyse, evaluate and also create media.

“Social media is about community. In the past people meet and share. Schools have clubs, villages have groups, councils of elders, children, and more. These people are interrelated in one way or the other. Friends of friends, members of a group - the only difference is that they meet physically. In recent years social media has imitated the lifestyle of communities and made them into platforms online. These virtual communities help to share activities and lifestyles that are similar to a physical community, online.” #ASKnet ToT Discussion Excerpt
Women & Girls Participation 
HOW TO ENSURE WOMEN PARTICIPATE ACTIVELY IN A TRAINING 
Take the elements that are especially important to consider for gender equality - to make sure you really do give space and time for women to actively participate and be confident. 
Actively creating safe spaces for women to express themselves, not only ‘for women’ but also men and boys - how to listen to women, give space to participate, not being bossy!
Invite more women to participate, encourage, overcome barriers (eg need childcare).

“Since the training I have started a ‘girls rescue Africa’ Initiative teaching women and girls about menstruation and pregnancy, meeting with women and girls in locations like Odobu in Rhino Camp.” Clara Given
#OpenTech 
HOW TO BUILD THINGS … 
A SOLAR CHARGER, A WATER FILTER & MORE! 
Concepts to introduce include: #OpenTech, upcycling, process documentation, basic electronics: soldering, circuits, understanding power supply and solar energy - and the concepts of open hardware and repair culture. Outcomes can be LED lights, building solar chargers, a communications dish for signal principles, charcoal water filters or developing handcraft skills. Setting up and maintaining a workshop, running a community  repair café for broken devices by engaging the community in repairing their broken devices (eg. radios, solar lights etc.) and helping people solve the issues with their electronics. 

How to  document your work to share with others: tutorial creation, workspace preparation, feedback loops, new ideation and teamwork, adapting your training towards a workflow. 
Also learning about Licences, access to free information and Open Source principles. 

“We are now training our communities on how to build water filters. Together with a team of other young ladies we are building water filters for sale to community members who can not do it themselves.” Dawa Edina, Keji Esther & Sida Lilian

WHERE TO START?
ELEMENTS OF TRAINING 
WHAT IS YOUR TRAINING ABOUT?
CHOOSE YOUR TOPIC
Research & find resources
Assess the needs of community
Organise the workshop 
Pitch your training!
BUILD YOUR TEAM
Gender Equality | Active Participation
Open Learning | P2P Peer to Peer 
Collaboration = work together
Innovation + Add Your Ideas!
CREATE OPEN SPACE
Safe Space to listen and share
Surrounding Atmosphere
Encourage active participation
Safety | Security | Caregiving
OVERCOME CHALLENGES
Be flexible and adaptable
Adjust the agenda as necessary
Remember to have a back-up plan.
Find solutions together and keep going!
OBSERVE & EVALUATE
Timekeeping | Stay Focused
Sit downs | Input | Feedback
Learner Self-Reflection | Assessment
Training Evaluation | Kudos Jar 

MAKE A CHECKLIST
What needs to be considered to plan & run the training?
These needs will vary in each training scenario - adapt them to your own.

LOGISTICS
ORGANISE YOUR SPACE
EQUIPMENT
TOOLS
MATERIALS
DOCUMENTATION
EVALUATION
[BLANK LINES] …. ?? 

SHARE YOUR KNOWLEDGE!
Documentation & Media Management
Notes | Open Questions
Step by step Instructions for tutorials
Publish and share your tutorial

“Since the training I am giving more training on how to build rocket lorena (energy saving) stoves and building some for the community in Bidibidi refugee settlement.” 
Likambu Innocent

DOCUMENTATION
All methods and steps used in training are documented by the participants. The information published online via an open source platform for future access, where anyone interested in creating their own version can easily do so by following the information posted. Participants gain skills in content development for web and media creation by making their own tutorials.
#ASKnet Open Tech Community on wikifab 
Imagine a world in which everyone can learn to make everything him or herself.
WikiFab tutorials are created by enthusiasts for anyone to make, modify and improve.
The mission of Wikifab is to disseminate this knowledge for free to everyone, making the creation of tutorials as intuitive and fun as possible. DIY "Do It Yourself" ethos & resulting ecological, economic and social benefits can help solve some of the challenges of our time!
RESOURCES
Find more information online: tools, exercises and methods for Open Training!

RESEARCH TUTORIALS
BLANK TEMPLATES [Needs Assessment, Agenda, Checklist, Certificate, Evaluation]
TRAINING SCENARIOS, ICEBREAKERS, ENERGISERS, EVALUATION

SCAN THIS QR CODE
OR GO ONLINE TO:

http://tiny.cc/OTG

CREDITS

Published by r0g_agency for open culture and critical transformation gGmbH
Project Coordinators: Clemens Lerche, Stephen Kovats, Arinda Gilbert Curfrey
Local Project Partners: Peter Batali, James Taban Radento, Mathew Lubari 
Trainers: Victoria Wenzelmann, Eva Yayi Mawa, Muhammad Radwan, Timm Wille, Daniel Connell
Trainee Mentors: Adam Abdulmalik, John Bior Ajang Garang, Jaiksana Amaruda
#ASKnet OTG Assembled, edited & game concept: Jodi Rose
#ASKnet OTG Design & Layout: Manuel Astorga
Photo credits: Zozan Yasir, Jaiksana Jambu Jackson, Mathew Lubari (RIC coordinator)
Excerpts from collaborative material authored and developed with participants & trainers during the #ASknet Training of Trainers (ToT) Rhino Camp, Uganda 2018-2019

CC stands for creative commons, a copyright license that allows to freely: 
Share — copy and redistribute material in any medium or format
Adapt — remix, transform, and build upon the material for any purpose, even commercially.
But also … Attribute! You can use this material freely without asking the authors permission, but credit them when you do, and share it with the same license!

What is this?                             *CC-BY-SA4.0 License (LOGO) 

